---
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/tamus-cyber/tamus-control-standards/tree/main/content/tamus.edu/TAMUS_profile.yaml
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 2
title: IR-7 Incident Response Assistance
description: ""
---

# IR-7 Incident Response Assistance {#ir-07}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization\
_**Texas DIR Baseline**_: LOW\
_**Texas DIR Required By**_: 2023-07-20

### Control

Provide an incident response support resource, integral to the organizational incident response capability, that offers advice and assistance to users of the system for the handling and reporting of incidents.


<details><summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>Incident response support resources provided by organizations include help desks, assistance groups, automated ticketing systems to open and track incident response tickets, and access to forensics services or consumer redress services, when required.</details>

### Texas DIR Implementation Statement

<em>[Withdrawn.]</em>





## IR-7(1) Automation Support for Availability of Information and Support {#ir-07.01}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization

### Control

Increase the availability of incident response information and support using <strong title="ir-07.01_odp"> <em>[Assignment: automated mechanisms]</em> </strong>.


<details><summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>Automated mechanisms can provide a push or pull capability for users to obtain incident response assistance. For example, individuals may have access to a website to query the assistance capability, or the assistance capability can proactively send incident response information to users (general distribution or targeted) as part of increasing understanding of current response capabilities and support.</details>


## IR-7(2) Coordination with External Providers {#ir-07.02}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization

### Control



    (a) Establish a direct, cooperative relationship between its incident response capability and external providers of system protection capability; and

    (b) Identify organizational incident response team members to the external providers.


<details><summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>External providers of a system protection capability include the Computer Network Defense program within the U.S. Department of Defense. External providers help to protect, monitor, analyze, detect, and respond to unauthorized activity within organizational information systems and networks. It may be beneficial to have agreements in place with external providers to clarify the roles and responsibilities of each party before an incident occurs.</details>
