---
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/tamus-cyber/tamus-control-standards/tree/main/content/tamus.edu/TAMUS_profile.xml
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 2
title: CM-6 Configuration Settings
description: ""
---

# CM-6 Configuration Settings {#cm-06}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization; Information System\
_**Texas DIR Baseline**_: LOW\
_**Texas DIR Required By**_: 2023-07-20\
_**Texas A&M System Required By**_: 2022-08-01

### Control

a. Establish and document configuration settings for components employed within the system that reflect the most restrictive mode consistent with operational requirements using <strong title="cm-06_odp.01"> <em>[Assignment: common secure configurations]</em> </strong>;

b. Implement the configuration settings;

c. Identify, document, and approve any deviations from established configuration settings for <strong title="cm-06_odp.02"> <em>[Assignment: system components]</em> </strong> based on <strong title="cm-06_odp.03"> <em>[Assignment: operational requirements]</em> </strong> ; and

d. Monitor and control changes to the configuration settings in accordance with organizational policies and procedures.

<details>
  <summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>

Configuration settings are the parameters that can be changed in the hardware, software, or firmware components of the system that affect the security and privacy posture or functionality of the system. Information technology products for which configuration settings can be defined include mainframe computers, servers, workstations, operating systems, mobile devices, input/output devices, protocols, and applications. Parameters that impact the security posture of systems include registry settings; account, file, or directory permission settings; and settings for functions, protocols, ports, services, and remote connections. Privacy parameters are parameters impacting the privacy posture of systems, including the parameters required to satisfy other privacy controls. Privacy parameters include settings for access controls, data processing preferences, and processing and retention permissions. Organizations establish organization-wide configuration settings and subsequently derive specific configuration settings for systems. The established settings become part of the configuration baseline for the system.

</details>

### Texas A&M System Implementation Statement

Adopt baseline security configuration checklists that meet or exceed published industry best practice sources (e.g., Center for Internet Security Benchmarks [CIS Benchmarks], NIST National Checklist Program [NCP]) when available, or locally develop security configuration checklists otherwise, for all organization-owned or -managed major and high-impact information systems, and systems processing confidential information.

## CM-6(1) Automated Management, Application, and Verification {#cm-06.01}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization

### Control

Manage, apply, and verify configuration settings for <strong title="cm-06.01_odp.01"> <em>[Assignment: system components]</em> </strong> using <strong title="cm-6.1_prm_2"> <em>[Assignment: organization-defined automated mechanisms]</em> </strong>.

<details>
  <summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>

Automated tools (e.g., hardening tools, baseline configuration tools) can improve the accuracy, consistency, and availability of configuration settings information. Automation can also provide data aggregation and data correlation capabilities, alerting mechanisms, and dashboards to support risk-based decision-making within the organization.

</details>

## CM-6(2) Respond to Unauthorized Changes {#cm-06.02}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization

### Control

Take the following actions in response to unauthorized changes to <strong title="cm-06.02_odp.02"> <em>[Assignment: configuration settings]</em> </strong>: <strong title="cm-06.02_odp.01"> <em>[Assignment: actions]</em> </strong>.

<details>
  <summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>

Responses to unauthorized changes to configuration settings include alerting designated organizational personnel, restoring established configuration settings, or—in extreme cases—halting affected system processing.

</details>

## CM-6(3) Unauthorized Change Detection {#cm-06.03}


<prop xmlns="http://csrc.nist.gov/ns/oscal/1.0" name="status" value="withdrawn">
               <em>[Withdrawn: Incorporated into [SI-7](../../si/si-07/#si-07).]</em>
            </prop>
            

## CM-6(4) Conformance Demonstration {#cm-06.04}


<prop xmlns="http://csrc.nist.gov/ns/oscal/1.0" name="status" value="withdrawn">
               <em>[Withdrawn: Incorporated into [CM-4](../../cm/cm-04/#cm-04).]</em>
            </prop>
            

