---
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/tamus-cyber/tamus-control-standards/tree/main/content/tamus.edu/TAMUS_profile.yaml
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 2
title: CM-10 Software Usage Restrictions
description: ""
---

# CM-10 Software Usage Restrictions {#cm-10}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization\
_**Texas DIR Baseline**_: LOW\
_**Texas DIR Required By**_: 2023-01-20\
_**Texas A&M System Required By**_: 2022-08-01

### Control



a. Use software and associated documentation in accordance with contract agreements and copyright laws;

b. Track the use of software and associated documentation protected by quantity licenses to control copying and distribution; and

c. Control and document the use of peer-to-peer file sharing technology to ensure that this capability is not used for the unauthorized distribution, display, performance, or reproduction of copyrighted work.


<details><summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>Software license tracking can be accomplished by manual or automated methods, depending on organizational needs. Examples of contract agreements include software license agreements and non-disclosure agreements.</details>

### Texas A&M System Implementation Statement

Inform users that unauthorized or unlicensed use of software is regarded as a serious matter subject to disciplinary action.



## CM-10(1) Open-source Software {#cm-10.01}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization

### Control

Establish the following restrictions on the use of open-source software: <strong title="cm-10.01_odp"> <em>[Assignment: restrictions]</em> </strong>.


<details><summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>Open-source software refers to software that is available in source code form. Certain software rights normally reserved for copyright holders are routinely provided under software license agreements that permit individuals to study, change, and improve the software. From a security perspective, the major advantage of open-source software is that it provides organizations with the ability to examine the source code. In some cases, there is an online community associated with the software that inspects, tests, updates, and reports on issues found in software on an ongoing basis. However, remediating vulnerabilities in open-source software may be problematic. There may also be licensing issues associated with open-source software, including the constraints on derivative use of such software. Open-source software that is available only in binary form may increase the level of risk in using such software.</details>
