---
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/tamus-cyber/tamus-control-standards/tree/main/content/tamus.edu/TAMUS_profile.xml
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 2
title: CM-11 User-installed Software
description: ""
---

# CM-11 User-installed Software {#cm-11}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization\
_**Texas DIR Baseline**_: LOW\
_**Texas DIR Required By**_: 2023-01-20\
_**Texas A&M System Required By**_: 2024-02-01

### Control

a. Establish <strong title="cm-11_odp.01"> <em>[Assignment: policies]</em> </strong> governing the installation of software by users;

b. Enforce software installation policies through the following methods: <strong title="cm-11_odp.02"> <em>[Assignment: methods]</em> </strong> ; and

c. Monitor policy compliance <strong title="cm-11_odp.03"> <em>[Assignment: frequency]</em> </strong>.

<details>
  <summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>

If provided the necessary privileges, users can install software in organizational systems. To maintain control over the software installed, organizations identify permitted and prohibited actions regarding software installation. Permitted software installations include updates and security patches to existing software and downloading new applications from organization-approved <q xmlns="http://csrc.nist.gov/ns/oscal/1.0">app stores.</q> Prohibited software installations include software with unknown or suspect pedigrees or software that organizations consider potentially malicious. Policies selected for governing user-installed software are organization-developed or provided by some external entity. Policy enforcement methods can include procedural methods and automated methods.

</details>

### Texas A&M System Implementation Statement

a. Users may not install applications which capture indiscriminate input from a human interface device such as a keyboard.

b. Applications designed to capture discriminate input are not in scope of this control standard if the application meets the following criteria:

1. The application behavior is explicitly approved by the user on a per-application basis;

2. The application does not run at the operating system level, and

3. The application does not capture indiscriminate input from a web browser.

## CM-11(1) Alerts for Unauthorized Installations {#cm-11.01}


<prop xmlns="http://csrc.nist.gov/ns/oscal/1.0" name="status" value="withdrawn">
               <em>[Withdrawn: Incorporated into [CM-8(3)](../../cm/cm-08/#cm-08.03).]</em>
            </prop>
            

## CM-11(2) Software Installation with Privileged Status {#cm-11.02}

_**Implementation Level**_: Information System

### Control

Allow user installation of software only with explicit privileged status.

<details>
  <summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>

Privileged status can be obtained, for example, by serving in the role of system administrator.

</details>

## CM-11(3) Automated Enforcement and Monitoring {#cm-11.03}

_**Implementation Level**_: Information System\
_**Contributes to Assurance**_: Yes

### Control

Enforce and monitor compliance with software installation policies using <strong title="cm-11.3_prm_1"> <em>[Assignment: organization-defined automated mechanisms]</em> </strong>.

<details>
  <summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>

Organizations enforce and monitor compliance with software installation policies using automated mechanisms to more quickly detect and respond to unauthorized software installation which can be an indicator of an internal or external hostile attack.

</details>

