---
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/tamus-cyber/tamus-control-standards/tree/main/content/tamus.edu/TAMUS_profile.yaml
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 2
title: AU-4 Audit Log Storage Capacity
description: ""
---

# AU-4 Audit Log Storage Capacity {#au-04}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization; Information System\
_**Texas DIR Baseline**_: LOW\
_**Texas DIR Required By**_: 2023-07-20

### Control

Allocate audit log storage capacity to accommodate <strong title="au-04_odp"> <em>[Assignment: audit log retention requirements]</em> </strong>.


<details><summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>Organizations consider the types of audit logging to be performed and the audit log processing requirements when allocating audit log storage capacity. Allocating sufficient audit log storage capacity reduces the likelihood of such capacity being exceeded and resulting in the potential loss or reduction of audit logging capability.</details>


## AU-4(1) Transfer to Alternate Storage {#au-04.01}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization; Information System

### Control

Transfer audit logs <strong title="au-04.01_odp"> <em>[Assignment: frequency]</em> </strong> to a different system, system component, or media other than the system or system component conducting the logging.


<details><summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>Audit log transfer, also known as off-loading, is a common process in systems with limited audit log storage capacity and thus supports availability of the audit logs. The initial audit log storage is only used in a transitory fashion until the system can communicate with the secondary or alternate system allocated to audit log storage, at which point the audit logs are transferred. Transferring audit logs to alternate storage is similar to [AU-9(2)](/catalog/au/au-09#au-09.02) in that audit logs are transferred to a different entity. However, the purpose of selecting [AU-9(2)](/catalog/au/au-09#au-09.02) is to protect the confidentiality and integrity of audit records. Organizations can select either control enhancement to obtain the benefit of increased audit log storage capacity and preserving the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of audit records and logs.</details>
