---
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/tamus-cyber/tamus-control-standards/tree/main/content/tamus.edu/TAMUS_profile.xml
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 2
title: AU-11 Audit Record Retention
description: ""
---

# AU-11 Audit Record Retention {#au-11}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization\
_**Texas DIR Baseline**_: LOW\
_**Texas DIR Required By**_: 2023-07-20

### Control

Retain audit records for <strong title="au-11_odp"> <em>[Assignment: time period]</em> </strong> to provide support for after-the-fact investigations of incidents and to meet regulatory and organizational information retention requirements.

<details>
  <summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>

Organizations retain audit records until it is determined that the records are no longer needed for administrative, legal, audit, or other operational purposes. This includes the retention and availability of audit records relative to Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests, subpoenas, and law enforcement actions. Organizations develop standard categories of audit records relative to such types of actions and standard response processes for each type of action. The National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) General Records Schedules provide federal policy on records retention.

</details>

## AU-11(1) Long-term Retrieval Capability {#au-11.01}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization\
_**Contributes to Assurance**_: Yes

### Control

Employ <strong title="au-11.01_odp"> <em>[Assignment: measures]</em> </strong> to ensure that long-term audit records generated by the system can be retrieved.

<details>
  <summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>

Organizations need to access and read audit records requiring long-term storage (on the order of years). Measures employed to help facilitate the retrieval of audit records include converting records to newer formats, retaining equipment capable of reading the records, and retaining the necessary documentation to help personnel understand how to interpret the records.

</details>

