---
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/tamus-cyber/standards.cyber.tamus.edu/tree/main/static/content/tamus.edu/TAMUS_profile.xml
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 2
title: CA-2 Control Assessments
description: ""
---

# CA-2 Control Assessments {#ca-02}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization\
_**Contributes to Assurance**_: Yes\
_**Texas DIR Baseline**_: LOW\
_**Texas DIR Required By**_: 2023-07-20

### Control

a. Select the appropriate assessor or assessment team for the type of assessment to be conducted;

b. Develop a control assessment plan that describes the scope of the assessment including:

1. Controls and control enhancements under assessment;

2. Assessment procedures to be used to determine control effectiveness; and

3. Assessment environment, assessment team, and assessment roles and responsibilities;

c. Ensure the control assessment plan is reviewed and approved by the authorizing official or designated representative prior to conducting the assessment;

d. Assess the controls in the system and its environment of operation <strong>                     <em>[Assignment: assessment frequency]</em>                  </strong> to determine the extent to which the controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting established security and privacy requirements;

e. Produce a control assessment report that document the results of the assessment; and

f. Provide the results of the control assessment to <strong>                     <em>[Assignment: individuals or roles]</em>                  </strong>.

<details>
  <summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>

Organizations ensure that control assessors possess the required skills and technical expertise to develop effective assessment plans and to conduct assessments of system-specific, hybrid, common, and program management controls, as appropriate. The required skills include general knowledge of risk management concepts and approaches as well as comprehensive knowledge of and experience with the hardware, software, and firmware system components implemented.

</details>

### Texas DIR Implementation Statement

Control assessments shall be conducted at least biennially.

## CA-2(1) Independent Assessors {#ca-02.01}

### Control

Employ independent assessors or assessment teams to conduct control assessments.

<details>
  <summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>

Independent assessors or assessment teams are individuals or groups who conduct impartial assessments of systems. Impartiality means that assessors are free from any perceived or actual conflicts of interest regarding the development, operation, sustainment, or management of the systems under assessment or the determination of control effectiveness. To achieve impartiality, assessors do not create a mutual or conflicting interest with the organizations where the assessments are being conducted, assess their own work, act as management or employees of the organizations they are serving, or place themselves in positions of advocacy for the organizations acquiring their services.

</details>

## CA-2(2) Specialized Assessments {#ca-02.02}

### Control

Include as part of control assessments, <strong>                     <em>[Assignment: specialized assessment frequency]</em>                  </strong>, <strong>                     <em>[Selection: announced; unannounced]</em>                  </strong>, <strong>                     <em>[Selection (one or more): in-depth monitoring; security instrumentation; automated security test cases; vulnerability scanning; malicious user testing; insider threat assessment; performance and load testing; data leakage or data loss assessment;                      <strong>                           <em>[Assignment: other forms of assessment]</em>                        </strong>                  ]</em>                  </strong>.

<details>
  <summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>

Organizations can conduct specialized assessments, including verification and validation, system monitoring, insider threat assessments, malicious user testing, and other forms of testing. These assessments can improve readiness by exercising organizational capabilities and indicating current levels of performance as a means of focusing actions to improve security and privacy. Organizations conduct specialized assessments in accordance with applicable laws, executive orders, directives, regulations, policies, standards, and guidelines. Authorizing officials approve the assessment methods in coordination with the organizational risk executive function. Organizations can include vulnerabilities uncovered during assessments into vulnerability remediation processes. Specialized assessments can also be conducted early in the system development life cycle (e.g., during initial design, development, and unit testing).

</details>

## CA-2(3) Leveraging Results from External Organizations {#ca-02.03}

### Control

Leverage the results of control assessments performed by <strong>                     <em>[Assignment: external organization(s)]</em>                  </strong> on <strong>                     <em>[Assignment: system]</em>                  </strong> when the assessment meets <strong>                     <em>[Assignment: requirements]</em>                  </strong>.

<details>
  <summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>

Organizations may rely on control assessments of organizational systems by other (external) organizations. Using such assessments and reusing existing assessment evidence can decrease the time and resources required for assessments by limiting the independent assessment activities that organizations need to perform. The factors that organizations consider in determining whether to accept assessment results from external organizations can vary. Such factors include the organization’s past experience with the organization that conducted the assessment, the reputation of the assessment organization, the level of detail of supporting assessment evidence provided, and mandates imposed by applicable laws, executive orders, directives, regulations, policies, standards, and guidelines. Accredited testing laboratories that support the Common Criteria Program <a xmlns="http://csrc.nist.gov/ns/oscal/1.0" href="#6afc1b04-c9d6-4023-adbc-f8fbe33a3c73">ISO 15408-1</a> , the NIST Cryptographic Module Validation Program (CMVP), or the NIST Cryptographic Algorithm Validation Program (CAVP) can provide independent assessment results that organizations can leverage.

</details>

