---
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/tamus-cyber/tamus-control-standards/tree/main/content/tamus.edu/TAMUS_profile.yaml
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 2
title: AC-18 Wireless Access
description: ""
---

# AC-18 Wireless Access {#ac-18}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization\
_**Texas DIR Baseline**_: LOW\
_**Texas DIR Required By**_: 2023-07-20

### Control



a. Establish configuration requirements, connection requirements, and implementation guidance for each type of wireless access; and

b. Authorize each type of wireless access to the system prior to allowing such connections.


<details><summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>Wireless technologies include microwave, packet radio (ultra-high frequency or very high frequency), 802.11x, and Bluetooth. Wireless networks use authentication protocols that provide authenticator protection and mutual authentication.</details>

### Texas DIR Implementation Statement



State agencies shall establish the requirements and security restrictions for installing or providing access to the state agency's information resources systems. The wireless policy shall address the following topic areas:

a. Wireless Local Area Networks. Ensure that Service Set Identifiers (SSID) values are changed from the manufacturer default setting.

b. Transmitting and Encrypting Information. Types of information that may be transmitted via wireless
networks and devices with or without encryption including mission critical information or sensitive
personal information.

State agencies shall not transmit confidential information via a wireless connection to or from a
portable computing device unless secure encryption protocols that meet appropriate protection or
certification standards as detailed within this Security Control Standards Catalog are used to protect
the information.

c. Installation or Use of Wireless Personal Area Networks. Prohibit and periodically monitor any unauthorized installation or use of Wireless Personal Area Networks on state agency IT systems by individuals without the approval of the state agency information resources manager.



## AC-18(1) Authentication and Encryption {#ac-18.01}

_**Implementation Level**_: Information System

### Control

Protect wireless access to the system using authentication of <strong title="ac-18.01_odp"> <em>[Selection (one-or-more): users; devices]</em> </strong> and encryption.


<details><summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>Wireless networking capabilities represent a significant potential vulnerability that can be exploited by adversaries. To protect systems with wireless access points, strong authentication of users and devices along with strong encryption can reduce susceptibility to threats by adversaries involving wireless technologies.</details>


## AC-18(2) Monitoring Unauthorized Connections {#ac-18.02}

### Control

<em>[Withdrawn; incorporated into [SI-4](/catalog/si/si-04).]</em>



## AC-18(3) Disable Wireless Networking {#ac-18.03}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization; Information System

### Control

Disable, when not intended for use, wireless networking capabilities embedded within system components prior to issuance and deployment.


<details><summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>Wireless networking capabilities that are embedded within system components represent a significant potential vulnerability that can be exploited by adversaries. Disabling wireless capabilities when not needed for essential organizational missions or functions can reduce susceptibility to threats by adversaries involving wireless technologies.</details>


## AC-18(4) Restrict Configurations by Users {#ac-18.04}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization

### Control

Identify and explicitly authorize users allowed to independently configure wireless networking capabilities.


<details><summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>Organizational authorizations to allow selected users to configure wireless networking capabilities are enforced, in part, by the access enforcement mechanisms employed within organizational systems.</details>


## AC-18(5) Antennas and Transmission Power Levels {#ac-18.05}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization

### Control

Select radio antennas and calibrate transmission power levels to reduce the probability that signals from wireless access points can be received outside of organization-controlled boundaries.


<details><summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>Actions that may be taken to limit unauthorized use of wireless communications outside of organization-controlled boundaries include reducing the power of wireless transmissions so that the transmissions are less likely to emit a signal that can be captured outside of the physical perimeters of the organization, employing measures such as emissions security to control wireless emanations, and using directional or beamforming antennas that reduce the likelihood that unintended receivers will be able to intercept signals. Prior to taking such mitigating actions, organizations can conduct periodic wireless surveys to understand the radio frequency profile of organizational systems as well as other systems that may be operating in the area.</details>
