---
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/tamus-cyber/tamus-control-standards/tree/main/content/tamus.edu/TAMUS_profile.yaml
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 2
title: AC-11 Device Lock
description: ""
---

# AC-11 Device Lock {#ac-11}

_**Implementation Level**_: Information System\
_**Texas A&M System Baseline**_: LOW\
_**Texas A&M System Required By**_: 2024-02-01

### Control



a. Prevent further access to the system by <strong title="ac-11_odp.01"> <em>[Selection (one-or-more): initiating a device lock after <strong title="ac-11_odp.02"> <em>[Assignment: time period]</em> </strong> of inactivity; requiring the user to initiate a device lock before leaving the system unattended]</em> </strong> ; and

b. Retain the device lock until the user reestablishes access using established identification and authentication procedures.


<details><summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>Device locks are temporary actions taken to prevent logical access to organizational systems when users stop work and move away from the immediate vicinity of those systems but do not want to log out because of the temporary nature of their absences. Device locks can be implemented at the operating system level or at the application level. A proximity lock may be used to initiate the device lock (e.g., via a Bluetooth-enabled device or dongle). User-initiated device locking is behavior or policy-based and, as such, requires users to take physical action to initiate the device lock. Device locks are not an acceptable substitute for logging out of systems, such as when organizations require users to log out at the end of workdays.</details>


## AC-11(1) Pattern-hiding Displays {#ac-11.01}

_**Implementation Level**_: Information System

### Control

Conceal, via the device lock, information previously visible on the display with a publicly viewable image.


<details><summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>The pattern-hiding display can include static or dynamic images, such as patterns used with screen savers, photographic images, solid colors, clock, battery life indicator, or a blank screen with the caveat that controlled unclassified information is not displayed.</details>
