---
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/tamus-cyber/tamus-control-standards/tree/main/content/tamus.edu/TAMUS_profile.yaml
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 2
title: SC-15 Collaborative Computing Devices and Applications
description: ""
---

# SC-15 Collaborative Computing Devices and Applications {#sc-15}

_**Implementation Level**_: Information System\
_**Texas DIR Baseline**_: LOW\
_**Texas DIR Required By**_: 2023-07-20

### Control



a. Prohibit remote activation of collaborative computing devices and applications with the following exceptions: <strong title="sc-15_odp"> <em>[Assignment: exceptions where remote activation is to be allowed]</em> </strong> ; and

b. Provide an explicit indication of use to users physically present at the devices.


<details><summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>Collaborative computing devices and applications include remote meeting devices and applications, networked white boards, cameras, and microphones. The explicit indication of use includes signals to users when collaborative computing devices and applications are activated.</details>


## SC-15(1) Physical or Logical Disconnect {#sc-15.01}

_**Implementation Level**_: Information System

### Control

Provide <strong title="sc-15.01_odp"> <em>[Selection (one-or-more): physical; logical]</em> </strong> disconnect of collaborative computing devices in a manner that supports ease of use.


<details><summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>Failing to disconnect from collaborative computing devices can result in subsequent compromises of organizational information. Providing easy methods to disconnect from such devices after a collaborative computing session ensures that participants carry out the disconnect activity without having to go through complex and tedious procedures. Disconnect from collaborative computing devices can be manual or automatic.</details>


## SC-15(2) Blocking Inbound and Outbound Communications Traffic {#sc-15.02}

### Control

<em>[Withdrawn; incorporated into [SC-7](/catalog/sc/sc-07).]</em>



## SC-15(3) Disabling and Removal in Secure Work Areas {#sc-15.03}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization

### Control

Disable or remove collaborative computing devices and applications from <strong title="sc-15.03_odp.01"> <em>[Assignment: systems or system components]</em> </strong> in <strong title="sc-15.03_odp.02"> <em>[Assignment: secure work areas]</em> </strong>.


<details><summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>Failing to disable or remove collaborative computing devices and applications from systems or system components can result in compromises of information, including eavesdropping on conversations. A Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF) is an example of a secure work area.</details>


## SC-15(4) Explicitly Indicate Current Participants {#sc-15.04}

_**Implementation Level**_: Information System

### Control

Provide an explicit indication of current participants in <strong title="sc-15.04_odp"> <em>[Assignment: online meetings and teleconferences]</em> </strong>.


<details><summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>Explicitly indicating current participants prevents unauthorized individuals from participating in collaborative computing sessions without the explicit knowledge of other participants.</details>
