---
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/tamus-cyber/standards.cyber.tamus.edu/tree/main/static/content/tamus.edu/TAMUS_profile.xml
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 2
title: PM-5 System Inventory
description: ""
---

# PM-5 System Inventory {#pm-05}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization\
_**Texas DIR Required By**_: 2023-07-20\
_**Texas A&M System Required By**_: 2022-08-01

### Control

Develop and update <strong> <em>[Assignment: frequency]</em> </strong> an inventory of organizational systems.

<details>
  <summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>

 <a xmlns="http://csrc.nist.gov/ns/oscal/1.0" href="#27847491-5ce1-4f6a-a1e4-9e483782f0ef">OMB A-130</a> provides guidance on developing systems inventories and associated reporting requirements. System inventory refers to an organization-wide inventory of systems, not system components as described in <a xmlns="http://csrc.nist.gov/ns/oscal/1.0" href="#cm-8">CM-8</a>.

</details>

### Texas DIR Implementation Statement

Agencies shall update system inventories at least every two years.

### Texas A&M System Implementation Statement

a. Designate a single system of record for inventory of all information systems [SP 800-171] and network-attached operational technology [SP 800-37] owned or managed by the member;

b. Include any cloud computing services [SP 800-145] operated by the member in the inventory of organizational systems, and

c. Designate which data regarding an information system to record in the inventory of information systems. At a minimum, the data includes a unique identifier (e.g., serial number or system name), owner, custodian, description of the information system's function or major application, and highest level of data categorization stored/processed on the information system.

## PM-5(1) Inventory of Personally Identifiable Information {#pm-05.01}

_**Implementation Level**_: Organization

### Control

Establish, maintain, and update <strong> <em>[Assignment: frequency]</em> </strong> an inventory of all systems, applications, and projects that process personally identifiable information.

<details>
  <summary>Supplemental Guidance</summary>

An inventory of systems, applications, and projects that process personally identifiable information supports the mapping of data actions, providing individuals with privacy notices, maintaining accurate personally identifiable information, and limiting the processing of personally identifiable information when such information is not needed for operational purposes. Organizations may use this inventory to ensure that systems only process the personally identifiable information for authorized purposes and that this processing is still relevant and necessary for the purpose specified therein.

</details>

